---
id: 4
title: Bronze Age Mindset Review
date: 29 April 2023
img: bam.jpg
tags:
 - Required Reading
 - Masculinity
---

In any man's journey, he must rid himself of the great ugliness of the world, penetrate through the **owned space** of the leviathan around him, and have the spirit and vitality of the great men before us. This is necessary to living a masculine life, and is why this book is **ESSENTIAL** to any man's journey. This is **Bronze Age Mindset**

<!--more-->

Bronze Age Pervert's exhortation on the problems facing modern society is a very well thought out, in depth, and relatable view on what is going on in today's world. He touches on so many different subjects, from civilization histories, religions, governments, and so much more. Throughout the book, you will notice that the grammar and words he chooses are incorrect and mispelled, however do not be alarmed as this is done intentionally.

There are four parts to this book, as well as a prologue. His real exhortation does not start until about part 3, as his introduces us to the book with his explanation and intentions with the book in the prologue. In part 1, *The Flame Of LIfe* BAP introduces us to his view and understanding of how life itself works on a purely biological point of view, with some Nietzschean philosophy thrown in there to aid in the explanation. You will soon see that BAP is very fond with his work. Then in part 2 *Parable of Iron Prison* BAP explains how there is a group of elites who own all of the space around you, taking away essentially that which makes a man vital, that of his own space and freedom. Part 3 *Men of Power and the Ascent of Youth* here BAP explains the power of youthfulness, and great men of the past who were **actual** men. And finally in part 4 *A Few Arrows* BAP finishes off with solutions to the problems we are facing, and his view of the upcoming future, in which he sees a collapse of the Leviathan. 

Anyways, enough of an introduction, lets go through my thoughts on each, and why this is required reading

## Prologue ##
When I first started reading the book, I had really no idea or grasp on who this guy was. I had heard things about him through a close friend, who recommended me the book, but never knew exactly who BAP was to any extent. So you could imagine my surprise when I started reading the book, noticing all of the mispelled words, the terrible grammar, etc. However I noticed another thing upon his introduction, and that was the sheer amount of understanding and shared thoughts I had with this man, specificallly the major problems striking our society today. 

I never knew how to accurately put it into words what I felt, but it was almost like BAP elloquently, when he meant to, said exactly what I was thinking in my head. Whilst finally improving myself, and finally breaking the chains of the depressing life I was leading, I started to notice things about the world around me with a much more open and clear perspective, which was, in a nutshell, that something was very off about the world around us. As BAP said "If you look around eyes of some people you see a kind of demented energy". This is so true. People are so caught up in menial bullshit, in material goods, in hedonism, but not even just that, which I believe can be clear to many people with a braincell. Seeing people day to day, hearing them speak, listening to their conversations, it is almost like there is nothing there. A faint sense of emptiness lingers behind their speech, with the appearance of passion, but nothing really is actually there. Just numbed responses to more and more stimuli. Constantly on social media to keep going, needing screens in front of their faces at all times, a feign sense of desire , with no real passion or vitality there. Most everyone nowadays is a shell of a human, a humanoid if you will. 

BAP explores this is such an intricate and entertaining way, and if you are anything like me, on the grind, constantly improving yourself, constantly obssessing over your goals, your aspirations, then his views will really hit home with you. Being a college student myself, I see the owned space around me, how we are all peons to a larger entity that exists solely to deprecate our world more and more with their weak calls to obedience, and ugly structures all around us we unfortunately have to bear witness too everyday. And the worst part is that most people are numb to the truth, would see people like me or some of my buddies as weird, or crazy for simply seeing what is going on. Yet these folks are constantly drinking their reality away, on drugs, with terrible diets filled to the brim with estrogenics, horrendous chemicals, popping SSRI's as if that would even solve their problems; And they're gonna sit there and judge me for living a simple, strong, healthy, and clear life, full of a healthy diet, vitality, strength, open mindedness, and purpose? We really do live in such interesting times. 

## The Flame of Life ##
When BAP critiques views on biology, and modern science in general, it was really eye opening for me. Darwinism has been an accepted part of biology for the past couple centuries, yet BAP openly discusses Darwin as promoting "bug thought". Essentially Darwin had a right definition of how evolution works, but viewed it under a bad lense. He viewed life under extreme stresses, viewing these animals under certain lab conditions, not how they actually behave out in the wild left to their own devices. This is the point BAP makes. We make assumptions on life based off of the industrial programming we have been subjected to for almost 200 years. Living in cramped spaces, going to public schooling to be indoctrinated into some sort of slave like thinking. To view natural selection and humans under this lense is simply preposterous.  Humans are animals, and much like animals, we must be viewed in our natural state. The problem is that nowadays our thinking has been limited to the owned space around us. We have no purely natural thoughts really, everywhere we go, anywhere we see is owned by some group of people, it is not even our property.

This sense of exploration and freedom was once something so beautiful for humans, the sense of conquering, to explore, to adventure out into the world and to have a sense of ownership of the world around us. Now we rent apartments that aren't ours, we live in houses where we have to abide by homeowner rules, and regulations. Yes, buying a house does not mean shit. When you begin to open your eyes, and see the world for what it is at the current moment, it can seem very scary. Nothing around you can be conquered, there is no sense of true freedom. This is the problem . BAP instead views nature like this "In nature there is irrepressible force . . . Its destruction of the feeble designs of reason, the pointless words of man – this is beautiful." He's right. Nature has no concern with the microcosim of thoughts, and shitholes we invent to ourselves online, in person, wherever. These chambers we put ourselves in, though these prisons of thought can not be helped when the world around you is in itself a prison. When humanity becomes domesticated, like it has now, the people become depressed, they feel isolated in a room full of nobodies. Automatrons doing their work and going home, repeating this cycle day in and day out. No room for freedom or expression, as the movie *Fight Club* so vehemently promotes, (Great film on Nietzsche  philosophy, and that essential owned space) We are segregated to longhouses, in shitty apartments, living on top of each other, with no where to go and no one to be. For man to thrive he must have freedom, strength, vitality, and to some degree, a level of dominance and power over others. This is the natural state of man. And it is being taken away from us day in and day out. 

## Parable of Iron Prison ##
This chapter really goes more in depth of the problems the "longhouse" really gives us. Throughout time, there has not been a single linear progression of humanity. We have had many ascents and descents throughout time. My view is not one of that the modern day is the only era in which life has ever been like this, though I do believe modern technology makes this effect worse on a macro scale. When looking throughout history, many points in time have been moments where humanity became very domesticated. Where civilizations were reduced to agricultural shit storms, with no sense of exploration, no brutal conquering or fighting. Instead people lived in longhouses, with 100s of people crammed into this space not applicable for the amount of people it housed. What do we see nowadays?

This effect is amplified on a massive scale. We see the degradation of the spaces around us, new buuildings put up every 5 seconds, new shitty stores, new shitty apartments, houses, you name it. We have people so bugged out on pills, junk food, sedentary lives, that they are devoid of anything that could be considered valuable. And the worst part is, these people virtue signal to no end, constantly reminding us of the good person  they are, when in reality they are just saying words, "fighting" for something that either isn't a real concern, or that they literally are not doing anything about. I have met many people in my life like this, and sadly lots of them end up being male. I feel as if they do this shit speak to appeal to the women they are attracted to in the hopes of scoring someday. But I can not be sure. Anyways this modern day, to the extent it has been completed, has led us to a society of essentially zombies. People devoid of any sort of spirit, or drive. Any sort of real value, so they look to microcosmic bullshit to fill the void to make themselves feel important. Or they default. Typically males do this, where they live a life of no interest, i.e. watch porn, play video games, consume media constantly, and have nothing interesting to say, nothing of value to bring to the table. So instead they default to the nobody, who is essentially the "nice guy". Trust me these people are not nice, I know because I used to be a bug person like this myself. Living simply for pleasure, no goals, no motivations, no hope, just pleasing people, trying not to cause an  uproar, and will essentially hold the views of the majority as to not piss anybody off. This can include saying you care and are really ANGERY about this crime that happened agaisnt this black person, as if that has anything to do with your life whatsoever. As if you actually fucking care, you just say it to look like a better person, when in reality all it does is make you a shittier, lesser of a human being. This sickens me, and when you really look into what BAP is saying, which the chapter is dedicated to explaining the longhouse, and how that applies to the modern world, you begin to actually see the effects of this play out. 

Barely anyone lives interesting, vital, important lives. We have all been condemned to our own spaces, and any sort of freedom we experience ends up being  a kind of LARPing, where we believe that we are truly living a free and exciting life, when in reality we are distracting ourselves from our problems, and end up as losers. For example, people who go out and party all weekend, drink all the time, or do drugs, whether you are in or out of college, is not a form of exciting living, but instead a diversion from the pathetic life you are living, if even for a little bit. I know because I used to think that drinking, and doing all of this stupid behavior was good as I would miss out otherwise. The truth is, that this way of leisure has been promoted in this society, maybe not even by the leviathan, but certaintly by other folks, as they believe deep down there is nothing else for them. These are  the effects of the longhouse way of life, the domestication brought upon us by the industrial revolution. And yet, unsurprisingly no one seems to care, much less even notice.

## Men of Power and the Ascent of Youth ##
This is where we finally get a sense of hope. These next two parts really don't have to go into too much detail, as the solutions and the way men should live naturally, are really quite simple. Men of the bronze age, pirates, any great conquerer, all have thing in common. They were strong, they were vital, they had a sense of admirable carelessness about them, they were free, and most of all, they were **MEN**. This is the view BAP holds, that the truest definition of a real man was that of the military man. Specifically those of the greek armies, bronze age, any sort of pirate who went out and explored. This is because there men encompassed  what true nature looks like to a man. No obedience to one person or group, the freedom to fight for himself and his country, the freedom to explore new places, the right venture into wherever he wants. This is something missing from the modern day. 

I aspire to be just like this, a militaristic man of the bronze age. I will never get exactly to the point of a person like this simply because the modern day is full of toxcities in the diet, in the air, in the water, so my fitness may never be like them. I will  never cultivate the sheer amount of freedom that these men have. But I can always venture closer and closer to that. And when I finish a brutal workout, when I go jogging shirtless outside at a park, when I tear into the bones of the wings I just made, when I am side by side with my brothers, I feel ever so slightly closer to that point of purification.


## A Few Arrows ##
To wrap it all up, BAP speaks of things you can do in your country to solve the problems at hand, specifically for political change. I will not go  into detail here, as you need to read the book yourself. he also speaks of a beautiful future, one in which the leviathan crumbles upon itself, with it's skinny necked cretins all falling out of power, which then allows the strong men with the bronze age mindset to take the reigns of their own civlization and start anew. Maybe this time we may do it the right way. And hopefully, I can be one of those great men who sacrifice themselves everyday to make the world a stronger, more vital place. Reject the ugliness my friends!

## Required Reading ##
As I mentioned above, this is required reading for all of my followers. I believe this book t be a great eye opener for men who are on their journey to purification, and for myself it made me want to become the strongest man possible. I recommend the book to anybody, however as I mentioned if you want to call yourself a follower of mine, then you must read this book. Its education will serve you like no other, and the knowledge and insight you gain from it will be a great catalyst for change in your lives.

Reject Modernity. **Embrace Masculinity**


